Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
A.Programming Language is a formal language which comprises a set of
instructions used to produce various kinds of output. Programming languages are used
in computer programming to create programs that implement specific algorithms.

What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
A.Component of JDK: 1.Java Compiler 2. Java Interpreter 3. Java Disassembler
 4. Java Header File Generator 5. Java Documentation 6. Java Debugger
 7. Java Applet Viewer

What is IDE?
A.Integrated Development Environment

What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
A.Eclipse,NetBeans,intellij, Android studio, BlueJ, Jedit,Jgrasp,DrJava

Explain the entire java life cycle.
A.
step 1 : A Java program is written using either a Text Editor like
Textpad or an IDE like Eclipse and is saved as a .java file. (Program.java)

step 2: The .java file is then compiled using Java
compiler and a .class file is obtained from it. (Program.class)

step 3: The .class file is now portable and can
be used to run this Java program in any platform.

step 4 :Class file (Program.class) is interpreted by
the JVM installed on a particular platform. JVM is part of the JRE software.

what is class?
A.A class is a blueprint or a set of instruction to build a specific type of object.

What is object?
A.An object is  a self-contained component which consists of methods
 and properties to make a particular type of data useful

What is the entry point of an application?
A.Java main method

Why main is static?
A.JVM need main method to execute

Which class is the superclass of all classes?
A. java.lang.Object is a super class of any class by default

What is difference between path and classpath variables?
A.classpath variables use by java compiler and path varable use by operating system to find the executable

What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
A.interface can not have implementation and abstract class can  have instance method that implements behavior

Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
A.we can not make object from interface but we use  "implement" keyword to use their abstract method
we use "extends" for abstract class

what is Access Specifier?
A.access modifiers in Java helps to restrict the scope of
a class, constructor , variable , method or data member

What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
A.Object Oriented Programming, 	Inheritance, Polymorphism, Encapsulation,abstraction

What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
A. A Package can be defined as a grouping of related
types (classes, interfaces, enumerations and annotations )

What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
A.Application programming interface, java.lang and java.io etc

Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
A.NO,  exist methods with same signature in both the super classes and subclass.
On calling the method, the compiler cannot determine which to call

What is method overloading and when it happens?
A.Method overload happen in same class, happen compile time

Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
A.an unwanted or unexpected event, which occurs during the execution of a
program i.e at run time, that disrupts the normal flow of the program’s instructions.

What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
A.When a member is declared static, it can be accessed before any objects of
its class are created, and without creating any object.

What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
A.final variables are nothing but constants,we can not change value.A
 final method cannot be overridden.

What is final, finally and finalize?
A.Final class can't be inherited, final
method can't be overridden and final variable value can't be changed

What is a constructor ?
A.A constructor is an instance method that usually has the same
name as the class, and can be used to set the values of the
members of an object, either to default or to user-defined values.

Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
A.YES

If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
A.default constructor

What is "this" keyword in java ?
A. Keyword THIS is a reference variable in Java that refers to the current object

What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?
A.The super keyword in java is a reference variable that is used to refer parent class objects.

What is JVM stand for ?
A.Java Virtual Machine

Is JVM platform independent?
A.NO

What version of java are you using?
A. java version 1.8.0_191

What is JAR stand for ?
A.Java Archive

What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
A.VM is Java Virtual Machine, the JVM actually runs Java bytecode.
JDK is Java Developer Kit, the JDK is what you need to compile Java source code

What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
A.JRE is an acronym for Java Runtime Environment.It is used to provide
runtime environment.JVM contains set of libraries

What is compile time and run time?
A. Compile-time is the instance where the code you entered is converted
to executable while Run-time is the instance where the executable is running.

What is heap?
A.It is a more free-floating region of memory (and is larger) that manage automatically

How java manage it's memory?
A.the JVM and more specifically the Garbage Collector – has the duty of
 handling memory allocation so that the developer doesn’t have to.

What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
A.String is immutable ( once created can not be changed )object.
StringBuffer is mutable means one can change the value of the object.
StringBuilder is same as the StringBuffer , that is
it stores the object in heap and it can also be modified

What is Singleton class?
A.Make constructor as private.

What is Serialization and Deserialization?
A.Serialization is a mechanism of converting the state of an object into a byte stream.
 Deserialization is the reverse process where the byte
  stream is used to recreate the actual Java object in memory.

when to use transient variable in java?
A.A transient variable is a variable that can not be serialized.

Difference between while and do..while loop?
A.while loops, test expression is checked at first but,
in do...while loop code is executed at first then the condition is checked.

What is Enum?
A.Predefined Constant Variable

What is Iterator?
A.It is a interface used to get elements of legacy collections(Vector, Hashtable).

Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
A.Integer

Why is String Immutable in Java?
A.String is immutable in Java. An immutable class is simply a class whose instances cannot be modified.

What is constructor chaining in Java?
A.Constructor chaining is the process of calling one constructor
from another constructor with respect to current object

The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
A.serial and parallel collectors cause a stop-the-world during the GC.
a serial collector is a default copying collector which
uses only one GC thread for the GC operation, while a parallel
collector uses multiple GC threads for the GC operation

What is JIT stands for?
A.Just In Time

Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
A.objects are created inside heap memory and Garbage Collection is a process
which removes dead objects from Java Heap space and returns memory back to Heap in Java.

Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
A.NO

What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
A.Heap memory is used by all the parts of the application whereas stack
memory is used only by one thread of execution.

What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
A.Reflection in Java is the ability to examine and/or modify
the properties or behavior of an object at run-time.

what is multithreading in java?
A.Multithreading in java is a process of executing multiple threads simultaneously.

What is the use of synchronization in Java?
A.Synchronization in java is the capability to control the access of multiple threads to any shared resource.

What is Framework?
A.framework is a foundation with a specified level of complexity
(based on user level) that a programmer may extend using their own code.

What are the testing Framework available in java?
A.Junit, selenium, cucumber, RESTassured, TestNg, Mockito

Difference between jUnit and testNG?
A.Both Testng and Junit are Testing framework used for Unit Testing. Only Junit doesn't have dependency test

What are the dependencies for this project?
A.No dependency

what is dependency injection in java?
A.dependency injection is a technique whereby one object (or static method) supplies
the dependencies of another object. A dependency is an object that can be used (a service)

What is static binding and dynamic binding?
static binding is method overloading, dynamic binding is method overriding.









